It’s easy to understand why business leaders regard their experience and intuition as inadequate tools for optimizing their enterprises. In addition to all the new information being created every nanosecond, permanent and far-reaching changes are being shaped by multiple global forces that include a new economic environment, along with the familiar forces of a shrinking and flattening world. Routines persist but everything is just so different and very little feels familiar. Based on our survey of 225 business leaders worldwide, we found that enterprises are operating with bigger blind spots and that they are making important decisions without access to the right information. They recognize that new analytics, coupled with advanced business process management capabilities, signal a major opportunity to close gaps and create new business advantage. Those who have the vision to apply new approaches are building intelligent enterprises and will be ready to outperform their peers.Like coastal cities seeking shelt from successive onslaughts of blizzards and floods, today’s enterprises are striving to come to terms with their own extreme conditions. Their challenge is information – how it is acquired, managed and interpreted to drive business value. Business leaders considering how they will weather the storms are questioning whether traditional techniques will continue to work.In an environment that has little resemblance to the past, old ways of decision making and management are breaking down. Today’s leaders sense an inflection point, an opportunity to revisit their use of information, or analytics, and fundamentally alter the way in which they conduct business. While advanced analytic methods have been available for some time, today’s tools and techniques provide superior insight and predictability to support management decision making andactions. Complex algorithms, previously the domain of academics, are now being used to solve formerly intractable business challenges.Almost unimaginable just a few years ago is the fact that transistors are now being produced at a rate of one billion for every individual on earth. In sending signals from both people and objects, these transistorbased “instruments” are able to provide unprecedented levels of insight – for those organizations that can successfully analyze the data. That’s a high bar to pass. How is it possible for organizations to make sense of information with virtually quantum-level granularity – and cosmic-level ubiquity?For the intelligent enterprise, the new reality is this: personal experience and insight are no longer sufficient. New analytics capabilities are needed to make better decisions, and, over time, these experiences will even inform and hone our gut, or instinctive, responses. Making analytics core to our thinking is the only way we can really get smarter, and doing so is an imperative not an option. The information explosion has permanently changed the way we experience the world: everyone – and everything – is leaving real-time data tracks. Intellige ce is now increasingly embedded in objects, and individuals have become market segments of one.