Tamil star Suriya has always been known for his versatile characters and novelty in his characters. This time he became conjoined twins so let us see if he was good enough.

Story
Akhil and Vimal (Suriya) are born as conjoined twins due to a genetic experiment performed by their father Ramaswamy (Sachin) which goes wrong. Both are of contrasting nature. While Akhil is more soft spoken and decent, Vimal is more fun loving and casual. Meanwhile, Ramaswamy becomes a big business magnate as he prepares a milk powder which boosts energy and memory in kids. Akhil falls in love with Anjali (Kajal) and Vimal also helps for that. The story takes a turn when a Russian journalist discovers something dangerous in the formula of the milk powder but before she can reveal it to anyone she is killed. However, Akhil discovers it and what happens from there forms the rest of the story.

Performances
Suriya as the conjoined twins has delivered an excellent performance displaying contrasting body language and ease. Of course, he has done many challenging roles before so this is no different.

Kajal Agarwal looks glamorous in songs and was pretty in few scenes but then despite having a meaty role, it was not etched properly and she looked confused as the interpreter.

Sachin Khedekar had a very important and powerful role but he could not deliver those mean expressions when required. Prakash Raj would have been an apt choice for this.

Tara Anuradha was alright, Ajay Rathnam was brief, Ravi Prakash got good screen time and he made his presence felt, the Russian girl was alright, Isha Sharwani sizzles in one song, the others didn’t have any scope.

Highlights

Suriya’s performance
Production values
Drawbacks

Dull screenplay
Second Half
Music
Analysis
Last week, the pains caused by ‘Siva Thandavam’ are yet to be healed for the Telugu folks and if you go for ‘Brothers’ it is nothing short of entering a boxing ring. This time you have a one plus one offer.

K V Anand has been known for films like ‘Rangam’  ‘Veedokkade’ and others but most of the time the commercial masala that he packs is of high quality. This time, the subject he chose is rather scientific and to an extent interesting but then such ideas need to be packed with tight screenplay and high energy. And it always helps to have some dose of entertainment in the form of humor and hummable songs. But after the first few minutes, it looked like the film went into a world of its own. It stopped and proceeded wherever it wanted to. And it is the audience who had to pay the price for trying to figure out where and when the film will pick up and some Paisa Vasool factor will come. 

This is a dubbed flick and usually Tamil films come with some concepts. Telugu audience are not used to concepts, they want entertainment and action masala. And the concept should be an add-on then they welcome it. But this time, even the Tamil audience might find it hard to appreciate this project.

The first half has few interesting sequences but the interval bang reveals the plot. Second half becomes a torture with dragged scenes and sometimes it looks like a correspondent documentary. Overall, this is a film which is not worth its hype and it might fizzle out soon.

Bottomline: Better to spend time with your brothers than wasting time and money on this