After giving a thriller like ‘Anasuya’, Ravi Babu is back with the same genre. This time, he has included a paranormal element and whether it was matching his caliber or not, let us see

Story
Set on the backdrop of a gated community named ‘Classic Homes’ which has 101 homes near the outer ring road in Hyderabad, a newly married couple arrives to live in their new home. They are Harsha (Harshavardhan Rane) and his beautiful wife Mohini (Poorna). However, what they don’t know is there is an invisible presence in their home. That invisible person is often following Poorna like a shadow and keeps watching all her activities. Soon, that invisible person starts turning violent and this puts Mohini in lot of troubles. Who is that invisible person? What is his past? All this forms the rest of the story.

Performances
The film belongs totally to Poorna and she has delivered it very well. Imagining an invisible thing as existing and acting is a great challenge but Poorna revealed the right kind of fear and tension. She was good.

Harshavardhan Rane was just okay. He was not able to give the right kind of expressions during the climax. Looking cool is fine but as an actor he needs to emote the required expressions suiting the character.

Bhargavi was okay. The child artist who did her son’s role had a key character and he did well. Sudha, Chalapathi Rao, Delhi Rajeswari did their bit as required and added value. As usual, Ravi Babu did a small cameo but it was important for the plot.

Highlights

Poorna’s performance
Cinematography
Background score
Direction
Drawbacks

Length
Analysis
For any horror/thriller movie the technical team is crucial. If they can give the right output this type of films work. Sound, visual is very important.

Though there are no songs, the background score was gripping. The fear factor was created well using static camera. The lighting effect was strong and the editing was crisp. As a director, this is a challenge to Ravi Babu- very few characters, about 80% same location and that too interiors.

So, if the director has to scare they will mould the home in different ways. They will create spooky atmosphere with weird camera angles. But without all this, using an organized home and a static camera, the film has been shaped up very well showing this is how a thriller should be made. We tend to see such flicks in Hollywood with 80-90 minutes duration. But this culture is yet to develop for us. Interval is compulsory here and if there are no songs, the film has to run for 2 hours minimum.

Ravi Babu tried his best to cover but he could not succeed. The film had an unwanted 20 minutes but he managed it. The story runs smoothly till the interval point but it would have given a lot of kick if the interval was given at the point when the invisible character’s identity was revealed. Few gaps came in between scenes which downed the momentum.

Due to this, the climax didn’t have the required effect and ended hastily. Barring this hiccup, the film was good and has all factors to score a commercial success.