Rogue Nation stretches all the way back to the TV series for the villain. The Syndicate, an evil "mirror" of the IMF, was teased at the end of Ghost Protocol. Here, it takes center stage under the leadership of a corrupt ex-British agent (played with steely antagonism by Sean Harris). Meanwhile, Stateside, CIA director Hunley (Alec Baldwin) succeeds in getting the IMF's charter revoked and having the agents absorbed into his organization. Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), globetrotting in Europe chasing the Syndicate, refuses to come in from the cold. He is soon joined in exile by Benji Dunn (Simon Pegg) and, later, by William Brandt (Jeremy Renner) and Luther Stickell (Ving Rhames). Hunt's investigation leads him to the beautiful, deadly Ilsa (Rebecca Ferguson), who alternately helps and betrays him, causing him (and us) to question whether she's a British agent, a double agent, or a triple agent.
Whatever one thinks of Tom Cruise as a person and celebrity, there's no doubting his commitment to the Mission: Impossible series. In installment #4, he clung to the Burj Khalifa. In Rogue Nation, to top that stunt, Cruise clambers around on the outside of an Airbus A400M without the benefit of special effects or a double. Although in many ways more daring than what he accomplished for the previous film, the airplane walk is less central to the plot and seems superfluous. It may be the most spectacular scene offered by Rogue Nation but it is by no means the most tense. That distinction belongs to an underwater adventure, a car and motorcycle chase, or the final confrontation.

The action moves through many countries, stopping so briefly in some that we don't get a chance to sightsee. Filming was done in Vienna, London, and Casablanca, with those locations representing themselves and sometimes standing in for others (Paris, Cuba, and the United States). McQuarrie's screenplay has perfected the flavor of late-'80s/90's Bond - over-the-top action, cars and gadgets, and plenty of high-level corruption and double-crossing. The only element missing is a traditional "Bond girl." Rebecca Ferguson's Ilsa is just as physically intimidating and lethal as Hunt. She's more often the rescuer than the one in need of rescuing. And the film's romantic angle never goes beyond a little simmering sexual friction.